Welcome back in the last video we introduce a more concise way to create functions using the arrow function
syntax and you might be thinking R-OH functions are wonderful.
Let's use them everywhere.
But there's a catch.
R-OH functions are not exactly the same as using the function keyword.
There are a couple important points here.
The first is that aero functions do not get their own keyword.
As we mentioned earlier that when a function is run it gets its own keyword.
This and keyword arguments but that is not the case with arrow functions in an arrow function.
The value of the keyword this is whatever its enclosing context is.
Well that basically means is that the keyword this inside of an arrow function is whatever the value
of the keyword this would be immediately.
Outside of that arrow function that might sound a bit confusing.
So let's see a couple examples.
Just remember the fact that aero functions do not have their own.
This keyword can actually be quite useful.
You just need to understand when you might not want that and talking.
Let's see some cook.
What we're looking at is actually something we've seen before when talking about the keyword.
This inside of our object.
We have a say hi method which invokes a set time out function that cancelled blocks the string hello.
Plus the value of this first name in 1000 milliseconds just to be totally clear.
I'm using the term method to define a function that is placed on an object.
Now this code might seem pretty harmless but do you remember what happens when you invoke constructor
not say hi one second later we get back.
Hello undefined.
The reason here is that the value of the keyword this inside of the set timeout function refers to the
window not the instructor object.
So how do we fix this issue in S-5.
We use the bind keyword to explicitly set the value of the keyword this to be what we want.
We're using bind here instead of call or apply because we do not want to immediately invoke the function
we want to return a new function to be executed in a thousand milliseconds.
You might also be wondering why are we passing in the keyword this into bind.
We could pass and the instructor object.
The reason we use the keyword this year instead of instructor is that if we were to change the name
of our variable to instructor to our function would still work if we use the keyword this.
Now when we invoke the instructor I say hi method.
We will see a cancelled out logs.
Hello Ellie.
You're still feeling shaky on that material.
That's totally reasonable.
Make sure to watch the section on closures and the keyword this to see how to explicitly set the value
of the keyword.
This.
So what does that have to do with aero functions.
Remember that aero functions do not get their own keyword.
This the value of the keyword this inside of an arrow function is its enclosing context.
So how can you use that to our advantage.
Let's see what this code looks like.
Using aero functions.
If we were to run instructor that say hi this would cancel out log.
Hello Kelly but why does this work.
If you'd like.
Pause the video for a second and see if you can answer that question yourself.
It's a great way to truly test your understanding of aero functions the reason why this works is because
the value of the key word this inside of the time out is it's in closing context which is the instructor
object since the arrow function does not get its own keyword.
This we don't have to worry about explicitly setting its value.
We can just use arrow functions but you may have noticed there's something else going on here.
We used both the function keyword and an arrow function.
Why is that.
Why didn't we use an arrow function for the say high method as well.
Once again paused the video and see if you can figure out why that is.
If we use an arrow function the say hi method will not have its own key word.
This and the enclosing context for the say hi method will actually be the global object.
In our case the window.
So if we put an arrow function we would actually get back.
Hello undefined.
Once again let's see that quickly.
I'll copy and paste the code from the slide and replace the function keyword with an arrow function
and run our instructor that say hi function and it logs Hello.
Undefined.
The lesson here is that you need to be careful when using aero functions.
They are concise and can clean up your code but we always have to be aware that aero functions do not
get their own keyword.
This.
In fact aero functions do not get their own keyword arguments as well.
But see a small example of what happens if we try to use the arguments keyword when we run this function
or actually get a reference or something.
It's even more odd is that an argument keyword can be accessed in an Aero function.
If that function is inside of another function that it will only list the outer functions arguments.
If you really need to get access to the arguments in an arrow function there is a better way to do that
using something called the rest operator.
We'll see that very soon.
Now that we've seen some gotchas with error functions.
Let's see one last example of what we should never use the arrow functions should never be used as methods
in objects since we almost always get the value of the key word this that we do not want as 20:15 provides
a better alternative for creating methods in objects in the next video.
We'll take a look at a concept that's a bit easier to wrap your head around before we get to it.
It's your turn to practice with aero functions.
Good luck keep it up.